# data_analysis

Dataset

The dataset chosen for this project is the “Suicide Rates Overview 1985 to 2016” dataset from Kaggle datasets (Kaggle, 2020). The dataset contains information of the top 100 countries with the highest number of suicides ranked by the WHO. This can help in determining which countries have the highest number of reported suicides. The data is obtained through reports from the United Nations Development Program, the WHO, and the World Bank. My dataset has 12 variables. My only categorical data is the country name. The numerical data include the year, the number of suicides (suicides_no), the population, the number of suicides per a population of 100,000 people (suicides/100k pop), the HDI for a year, the GDP for a year and the GDP per capita. The age variable provides a range of years, for example, 15 – 24 years. The age variable corresponds to the generation which describes the name of the generation falling in the range. The country-year variable is also a combination of the country name variable and the year.  For better analysis, the dataset should have had more countries in order to enable there to be comparison between various countries. 

Initial Analysis

The research focuses at the relationship of different factors and the number of suicides. There are many statistical methods which can be used to evaluate the effects of various variables on the dataset. In order to determine the statistical difference in the data provided, I will use Python Jupyter Notebook for analysis. Python modules such as matplotlib, pandas and NumPy will be in use to determine the relationships between the data, calculating the correlation coefficient and mapping the values. The use of NumPy is in calculations such as correlation. The use of matplotlib will be used in data visualization of data. This will involve bar graphs, scatter graphs, and line graphs. Pandas is used in importing the data and storing the data in a dataframe. Seaborn is using in generating a heatmap. Python statsmodels is used in doing regression analysis.
